DDoS and Botnets (#100)
section-io/engineering-education: articles/ddos-attacks-using-botnets/index.md

The big botnets have a web of millions of devices, and most of the owners have no clue that their devices are compromised. Some are available to rent to the highest bidder, who can use them in whatever way they choose. Often, this means a DDoS attack.

To communicate with a C&C server, the botmaster uses various hidden channels like IRC and HTTP websites. Sometimes, they target popular services like Twitter, Facebook, and even Reddit.

DDoS attacks have become viable (if criminal) and cost-effective options for anyone looking to take out a website or disturb the communication of home and office networks. This results in many attack scenarios, ranging from shady businesses using DDoS to gain a competitive advantage, to assaults in which DDoS becomes a tool of vandalism, revenge, or simply a way to get some attention.

> Full-service DDoS attacks are available for as little as $5 per hour, and the interested party can easily stretch their hour with a monthly plan that averages $38. Within the cybercrime ecosystem, botnet DDoS attacks are a mainstream commodity; prices continually drop, while efficacy and sophistication are constantly on the rise.

Reviewer: Re: the pricing I'm tempted to ask for a citation, but then we also don't want to be linking to such services. Would it be more prudent to say something like "increasingly affordable to the average person" which would also be more timeless?

#### Peer-to-peer
Rather than relying on one centralized C&C server, newer botnets have evolved to use the more interconnected peer-to-peer (P2P) structure. In a P2P botnet, each infected device functions as a client and a server. Individual bots have a list of other infected devices and will seek them out to update and to transmit information between them.

P2P botnet structures make it harder for law enforcement to locate any centralized source. The lack of a single C&C server also makes P2P botnets harder to disrupt. Like the mythological Hydra, cutting off the head won’t kill the beast. It has many others to keep it alive.

### Botnet Protection
By now it should be evident that a global strategy is required to counter botnets – one that includes good practices on the Internet as well as antivirus protection. As you now know how botnets operate, here is some advice about how to deal with them.

- Keep your operating system up-to-date.
- Don't open files from unknown or suspicious sources.
- Scan all downloads before running the downloaded files, or find different ways of transferring files.
- Don't click suspicious links.
- Install an antivirus program.

> If you have IoT devices, you should make sure your devices are formatted for maximum protection. Secure passwords should be used for all devices. IoT devices, in particular, have been vulnerable to weak passwords. Many devices operate with easily discovered default passwords. A strong firewall is also important. Protecting your devices is an essential part of cybersecurity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have IoT devices, you should make sure your devices are configured and updated for maximum protection. Secure passwords should be used for all devices. IoT devices, in particular, have been vulnerable to weak passwords. Many devices operate with easily discovered default passwords. A strong firewall is also important. Protecting your devices is an essential part of cybersecurity.

```
